take the water that waterfall at the top
of the waterfall it's got something
called gravitational potential energy
which is the energy it possesses due to
its height above the Earth's surface
see like scoop some water at the river
into this beaker then I'd have to do
work to carry it up to the top of the
waterfall I'd have to expend energy to
get it up there so it would have that
energy as gravitational potential
even do the Sunspear carefully to water
as a mass of half a kilogram will fly by
the high - that's about five meters and
acceleration due to gravity is about 10
meters per second squared so that's 1/2
times 5 times 10 is 20 5 joules so I'd
have to put in 25 joules to carry this
water to the top of the waterfall then
if I emptied it over the top of the
waterfall then all that gravitational
potential energy will be transformed
into other types of energy its sound
just pressure waves in the air there's
the energy of the waves in the river and
there's heat so it'll be a bit hotter
down there because the waters cascading
into the pool at the foot of the
waterfall but the key thing is energy is
conserved it's not created or destroyed
so because energy is conserved if I were
to add up all the energy in the water
waves all the energy in the sound waves
all the heat energy the bottom of the
pool then I would find that it would be
precisely equal to the gravitational
potential energy the top of the balls
what's true for the waterfall is true
for everything in the universe it's a
fundamental law of nature known as the
first law of thermodynamics and the fact
that energy is neither created nor
destroyed has a profound implication it
means energy is eternal
the energy that's here now has always
been here and the story of the evolution
of the universe is just the story of the
transformation of energy from one form
to another from the origin of the first
galaxies to the ignition of the first
stars and the formation of the first
planets
you